### Climate Change
- Climate change vs global warming
- Is the Earth getting warmer?
- What is the Greenhouse Effect?
- Are changes caused by human activity?
- Can we prove climate change is happening?
- What can be done to reverse trends we are seeing?
### Climate
- Climate: The long term average of weather conditions at a particular location
- Weather: Short term variation in atmospheric conditions at a particular location
### Global Warming
- Average temperature of the Earth; is it increasing?
- Increasing mean temperature over the last 100 years
- Increase about 1 degree every 25 years
- Earth is warming
- What is the cause of the warming? 
- Does this prove climate change is going to happen?
- Is this temperature change caused by man?
### Greenhouse Effect
- Temperatures have risen over the last 100 years
- Have greenhouse gases increased over the last 100 years?
- Which greenhouse gases correlate with human activity?
- Carbon dioxide levels have risen over last 100 years
- Correlates with human activity and increases in temperatures
- Carbon dioxide levels have correlated with Earth's temperature in the past
- Does this prove that human activity is responsible for global warming?
- Data does not prove anything, just a correlation
- Temperature changes could cause variations in carbon dioxide concentrations
- Providing a direct cause and effect relationship is difficult but possible
### Scientific Method
- Make observations: collect data and form a hypothesis
- From a hypothesis: Form a testable prediction based on observations
- Test your hypothesis with a controlled experiment
- Collect data based on experimentation and modify hypothesis
- Nothing is ever proven
- Collect more and more evidence to support hypothesis until it gains acceptance
- Modeling studies link human activity to temperature increases
- At what point do we say we have enough evidence and need to take action?
### Consequences of Climate Change
- Rising see levels
- Changes in distributions of rainfall
- Changes to food supplies and agriculture
- Increase in heat related stress and distribution of human diseases
- Major changes in global ecology
